<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XII: Council of War</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Council of War</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>There was a great rush of feet across the deck. I could hear people tumbling up from the cabin and the foc‚Äôs‚Äôle; and slipping in an instant outside my barrel, I dived behind the foresail, made a double towards the stern, and came out upon the open deck in time to join Hunter and Doctor Livesey in the rush for the weather bow.</p>
			<p>There all hands were already congregated. A belt of fog had lifted almost simultaneously with the appearance of the moon. Away to the southwest of us we saw two low hills, about a couple of miles apart, and rising behind one of them a third and higher hill, whose peak was still buried in the fog. All three seemed sharp and conical in figure.</p>
			<p>So much I saw almost in a dream, for I had not yet recovered from my horrid fear of a minute or two before. And then I heard the voice of Captain Smollett issuing orders. The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Hispaniola</i> was laid a couple of points nearer the wind, and now sailed a course that would just clear the island on the east.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd now, men,‚Äù said the captain, when all was sheeted home, ‚Äúhas any one of you ever seen that land ahead?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI have, sir,‚Äù said Silver. ‚ÄúI‚Äôve watered there with a trader I was cook in.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe anchorage is on the south, behind an islet, I fancy?‚Äù asked the captain.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, sir, Skeleton Island they calls it. It were a main place for pirates once, and a hand we had on board knowed all their names for it. That hill to the nor‚Äôard they calls the Foremast Hill; there are three hills in a row running south‚Äôard‚ÅÝ‚Äîfore, main, and mizzen, sir. But the main‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat‚Äôs the big ‚Äôun, with the cloud on it‚ÅÝ‚Äîthey usually calls the ‚ÄòSpy-glass,‚Äô by reason of a lookout they kept when they was in the anchorage cleaning; for it‚Äôs there they cleaned their ships, sir, asking your pardon.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI have a chart here,‚Äù said Captain Smollett. ‚ÄúSee if that‚Äôs the place.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Long John‚Äôs eyes burned in his head as he took the chart, but, by the fresh look of the paper, I knew he was doomed to disappointment. This was not the map we found in Billy Bones‚Äôs chest, but an accurate copy, complete in all things‚ÅÝ‚Äînames, and heights, and soundings‚ÅÝ‚Äîwith the single exception of the red crosses and the written notes. Sharp as must have been his annoyance, Silver had the strength of mind to hide it.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, sir,‚Äù said he, ‚Äúthis is the spot, to be sure, and very prettily drawed out. Who might have done that, I wonder? The pirates were too ignorant, I reckon. Ay, here it is: ‚ÄòCaptain Kidd‚Äôs Anchorage‚Äô‚ÅÝ‚Äîjust the name my shipmate called it. There‚Äôs a strong current runs along the south, and then away nor‚Äôard up the west coast. Right you was, sir,‚Äù said he, ‚Äúto haul your wind and keep the weather of the island. Leastways, if such was your intention as to enter and careen, and there ain‚Äôt no better place for that in these waters.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThank you, my man,‚Äù said Captain Smollett. ‚ÄúI‚Äôll ask you, later on, to give us a help. You may go.‚Äù</p>
			<p>I was surprised at the coolness with which John avowed his knowledge of the island, and I own I was half-frightened when I saw him drawing nearer to myself. He did not know, to be sure, that I had overheard his council from the apple barrel, and yet I had, by this time, taken such a horror of his cruelty, duplicity, and power, that I could scarce conceal a shudder when he laid his hand upon my arm.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAh,‚Äù said he, ‚Äúthis here is a sweet spot, this island‚ÅÝ‚Äîa sweet spot for a lad to get ashore on. You‚Äôll bathe, and you‚Äôll climb trees, and you‚Äôll hunt goats, you will, and you‚Äôll get aloft on them hills like a goat yourself. Why, it makes me young again. I was going to forget my timber leg, I was. It‚Äôs a pleasant thing to be young, and have ten toes, and you may lay to that. When you want to go a bit of exploring, you just ask old John and he‚Äôll put up a snack for you to take along.‚Äù</p>
			<p>And clapping me in the friendliest way upon the shoulder, he hobbled off forward and went below.</p>
			<p>Captain Smollett, the squire, and Doctor Livesey were talking together on the quarterdeck, and anxious as I was to tell them my story, I durst not interrupt them openly. While I was still casting about in my thoughts to find some probable excuse, Doctor Livesey called me to his side. He had left his pipe below, and being a slave to tobacco, had meant that I should fetch it; but as soon as I was near enough to speak and not be overheard, I broke out immediately: ‚ÄúDoctor, let me speak. Get the captain and squire down to the cabin, and then make some pretense to send for me. I have terrible news.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The doctor changed countenance a little, but next moment he was master of himself.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThank you, Jim,‚Äù said he, quite loudly; ‚Äúthat was all I wanted to know,‚Äù as if he had asked me a question.</p>
			<p>And with that he turned on his heel and rejoined the other two. They spoke together for a little, and though none of them started, or raised his voice, or so much as whistled, it was plain enough that Doctor Livesey had communicated my request, for the next thing that I heard was the captain giving an order to Job Anderson, and all hands were piped on deck.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy lads,‚Äù said Captain Smollett, ‚ÄúI‚Äôve a word to say to you. This land that we have sighted is the place we have been sailing to. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝTrelawney, being a very openhanded gentleman, as we all know, has just asked me a word or two, and as I was able to tell him that every man on board had done his duty, alow and aloft, as I never ask to see it done better, why, he and I and the doctor are going below to the cabin to drink <em>your</em> health and luck, and you‚Äôll have grog served out for you to drink <em>our</em> health and luck. I‚Äôll tell you what I think of this: I think it handsome. And if you think as I do, you‚Äôll give a good sea cheer for the gentleman that does it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The cheer followed‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat was a matter of course‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut it rang out so full and hearty, that I confess I could hardly believe these same men were plotting for our blood.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOne more cheer for Cap‚Äôn Smollett!‚Äù cried Long John, when the first had subsided.</p>
			<p>And this also was given with a will.</p>
			<p>On the top of that the three gentlemen went below, and not long after, word was sent forward that Jim Hawkins was wanted in the cabin.</p>
			<p>I found them all three seated around the table, a bottle of Spanish wine and some raisins before them, and the doctor smoking away, with his wig on his lap, and that, I knew, was a sign that he was agitated. The stern window was open, for it was a warm night, and you could see the moon shining behind on the ship‚Äôs wake.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNow, Hawkins,‚Äù said the squire, ‚Äúyou have something to say. Speak up.‚Äù</p>
			<p>I did as I was bid, and, as short as I could make it, told the whole details of Silver‚Äôs conversation. Nobody interrupted me till I was done, nor did any one of the three of them make so much as a movement, but they kept their eyes upon my face from first to last.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJim,‚Äù said Doctor Livesey, ‚Äútake a seat.‚Äù</p>
			<p>And they made me sit down at a table beside them, poured me out a glass of wine, filled my hands with raisins, and all three, one after the other, and each with a bow, drank my good health, and their service to me, for my luck and courage.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNow, captain,‚Äù said the squire, ‚Äúyou were right and I was wrong. I own myself an ass, and I await your orders.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo more an ass than I, sir,‚Äù returned the captain. ‚ÄúI never heard of a crew that meant to mutiny but what showed signs before, for any man that had an eye in his head to see the mischief and take steps according. But this crew,‚Äù he added, ‚Äúbeats me.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCaptain,‚Äù said the doctor, ‚Äúwith your permission, that‚Äôs Silver. A very remarkable man.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe‚Äôd look remarkably well from a yardarm, sir,‚Äù returned the captain. ‚ÄúBut this is talk; this don‚Äôt lead to anything. I see three or four points, and with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝTrelawney‚Äôs permission I‚Äôll name them.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou, sir, are the captain. It is for you to speak,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝTrelawney, grandly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFirst point,‚Äù began <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝSmollett, ‚Äúwe must go on because we can‚Äôt turn back. If I gave the word to turn about, they would rise at once. Second point, we have time before us‚ÅÝ‚Äîat least until this treasure‚Äôs found. Third point, there are faithful hands. Now, sir, it‚Äôs got to come to blows sooner or later, and what I propose is to take time by the forelock, as the saying is, and come to blows some fine day when they least expect it. We can count, I take it, on your own home servants, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝTrelawney?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAs upon myself,‚Äù declared the squire.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThree,‚Äù reckoned the captain; ‚Äúourselves make seven, counting Hawkins here. Now, about the honest hands?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMost likely Trelawney‚Äôs own men,‚Äù said the doctor; ‚Äúthose he picked up for himself before he lit on Silver.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNay,‚Äù replied the squire, ‚ÄúHands was one of mine.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI did think I could have trusted Hands,‚Äù added the captain.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd to think that they‚Äôre all Englishmen!‚Äù broke out the squire. ‚ÄúSir, I could find it in my heart to blow the ship up.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, gentlemen,‚Äù said the captain, ‚Äúthe best that I can say is not much. We must lay to, if you please, and keep a bright lookout. It‚Äôs trying on a man, I know. It would be pleasanter to come to blows. But there‚Äôs no help for it till we know our men. Lay to and whistle for a wind; that‚Äôs my view.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJim here,‚Äù said the doctor, ‚Äúcan help us more than anyone. The men are not shy with him and Jim is a noticing lad.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHawkins, I put prodigious faith in you,‚Äù added the squire.</p>
			<p>I began to feel pretty desperate at this, for I felt altogether helpless; and yet, by an odd train of circumstances, it was indeed through me that safety came. In the meantime, talk as we pleased, there were only seven out of the twenty-six on whom we knew we could rely, and out of these seven one was a boy, so that the grown men on our side were six to their nineteen.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
